---
layout: post
categories: [blog, views]
share: true
comments: true
title: 'A New Hope'
excerpt: "Getting back to work after internship & last courses"
date: '2018-03-27T21:40:00+02:00'
modified: '2018-03-27T21:40:00+02:00'
tags: [research, meta]
author: Author1
hidelogo: true
relatedposts:
---

> It is a period of research. A BBA student, striking from a hidden base, has scored their fourth research interview for their thesis. 
> During the interview, the student asked many questions on AIoT's current and future state. The information gleaned from the interview will serve as a reality check and help to build a much more interesting technology overview than a mere literature survey.
> Pursued by the sinister seminar deadlines, the student races home aboard Länsimetro, now the sole custodian of the interview recording that can save their thesis and restore freedom to the galaxy.....

After the final period of mandatory courses and an internship at Helsinki University I'm at last getting back to work with my thesis. Initially I thought that I could keep working at it at a low burn, something like a hobby, but I ended up seeing days going by and not having the energy to really put in the effort. *Thus, all hope was lost. Not with a great crushing blow, but with a slow decay, gnawing away at the foundations until it becomes clear that the whole edifice is untenable, full of stale air with faint smell of rot and past dreams dreamed up too idly.*

But not really. I've laid some groundwork with weekly and daily planning, using B. Franklin's daily plannig method with [Art Of Manliness' interpretation](https://www.artofmanliness.com/2012/08/05/weekly-plan/) as a starting point. As a side note, I've also added [cold showers](https://www.artofmanliness.com/2014/07/21/the-health-benefits-of-cold-showers-video/) to my morning routine and I couldn't recommend it enough. My writing toolbox has also been amended with an ortholinear keyboard from [OLKB](https://olkb.com) and a transcription tool from [transcribe.wreally.com](https://transcribe.wreally.com) that I would recommend for anyone transcribing audio recordings or youtube videos. I think it would be worth your while to give it a try, especially in case you are working with recordings not in english language when, as in my knowledge, speech-to-text applications are not a realistic option (please prove me wrong). Also, there is the point of not willing to invest for a fully "professional product" with pedals and overpriced software. But those keyboards, however, are *worth every damn penny* and I have some serious difficulties of shutting up about them. So there's that.

Details and technicalities aside, I am sincerily hoping (see title) that this process will help me to grow so after a few months I could review my work and see it --as it likely will be-- flawed, unfinished and not very well thought out in the first place, but still an earnest first try at scientific writing.

There is much to be said and done on the actual work yet, but I will leave you with this quote from [B. Franklin's autobiography](http://www.ushistory.org/franklin/autobiography/page41.htm), hoping that those who might read this will be intrigued to research the subject themselves. The more astute readers will notice that B. Franklin is actually referring to his system of virtues and his journal he used to track his successes and failures in his attempt to live virtuously, but I believe the subject of daily planning and reviewing is close enough to warrant the use of this quote.

T

<div class="central-quote">I was surprised to find myself so much fuller of faults than I had imagined; but I had the satisfaction of seeing them diminish. - B. Franklin</div>